# MinimalOS-StorageManager
 

**MinimalOS-StorageManager** is a minimal storage management system built in assembly. It is designed as a component of a custom operating system to manage storage devices (hard-disk or SSD). The project implements basic file operations, memory allocation, and defragmentation for both unidimensional and bidimensional memory models, focusing on efficient resource management and low-level hardware interaction.

## Features

### Unidimensional Memory Management
- **Fixed Storage Capacity**: Simulated storage device with a fixed capacity of 8MB, divided into 8kB blocks.
- **File Storage**:
  - Each file requires at least two contiguous blocks for storage.
  - Files are stored contiguously; if contiguous space is unavailable, storage fails.
- **File Operations**:
  - Add a file: Allocates the first available contiguous block interval for the file.
  - Get file location: Returns the start and end block interval for a given file descriptor.
  - Delete a file: Frees the blocks occupied by the file by resetting their descriptor to 0.
  - Defragmentation: Reorganizes files to occupy consecutive blocks starting from block 0, eliminating gaps.

### Example Operations
- **Add File**: Allocates blocks for a file based on its size and descriptor.
- **Get File Location**: Returns the block interval for a file.
- **Delete File**: Frees the blocks occupied by a file.
- **Defragmentation**: Compacts memory to optimize storage and reduce fragmentation.

## Input Format

The program accepts input in a specific format. For detailed input specifications, refer to the [Input Format Specification](./InputFormatSpecification.md).

## Getting Started
### Prerequisites

A machine that runs linux. (It can also be a VM or WSL)

### Installation

 Clone the repository:
  ```bash
  git clone https://github.com/fernandodonea/MinimalOS-StorageManager
  ```

Navigate to the project directory:
  ```bash
  cd MinimalOS-StorageManager
  ```

### Usage

Command to obtain the executable:
```bash
gcc -m32 StorageManager.s -o task1 -no-pie -z noexecstack
```
Command to run the executable:
```bash
./task1 < input.txt
```

## Checker
The checker is a Python script that verifies the output of the assembly program. It compares the expected output with the actual output generated by the program. The checker is designed to ensure that the program behaves as intended and produces correct results.

### Prerequisites

Ensure that Python 3.9 (or later) is installed on your system.

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install python3
```

### Usage

The script must be placed in the same directory as the executables to be tested.

```bash
python3 checker.py task1
```


